Add grid splitter docs (#992)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/gridsplitter/configuration.md

---
title: Configuration
page_title: .NET MAUI GridSplitter Documentation - Configuration
description: Learn how to configure the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI GridSplitter resize direction and resize behavior.
position: 3
slug: gridsplitter-configuration
---

# .NET MAUI GridSplitter Styling

The GridSplitter provides a set of properties for customizing its default behavior.

## Parent Element

> You can use the `ParentLevel` (`int`) property to specify the level of the parent grid to resize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `ParentLevel` (`int`) property to specify the level of the parent grid to resize.
```

## Resize Direction

You can control whether the GridSplitter control resizes rows or columns by using the `ResizeDirection ` (`enum` of type `Telerik.Maui.Controls.RadGridSplitter.GridResizeDirection`) property. 

The following options are supported:

* (Default) `Auto`&mdash;Determines whether to resize rows or columns based on its alignment (based on the value of the `HorizontalAlignment` and `VerticalAlignment` properties) and width compared to height
* `Columns`&mdash;Resizes columns when dragging the splitter.
* `Rows`&mdash;Resize rows when dragging the splitter.

## Resize Behavior

> You can control whether the GridSplitter control resizes rows or columns by using the `ResizeBehavior` (`enum` of type `Telerik.Maui.Controls.RadGridSplitter.GridResizeBehavior`) property. 

Reviewer: The description of Resize Behavior and Resize Directions is the same. To add more value, describe what makes them different, don't use the same sentence.

* `CurrentAndNext`&mdash;Resizes the current and next `Grid` columns or rows. For a horizontal GridSplitter, space is redistributed between the row that is specified for the GridSplitter and the next row that is below it. For a vertical GridSplitter, space is redistributed between the column that is specified for the GridSplitter and the next column that is to the right.
* `PreviousAndCurrent`&mdash;Resize the previous and current `Grid` columns or rows. For a horizontal GridSplitter, space is redistributed between the row that is specified for the GridSplitter and the next row that is above it. For a vertical GridSplitter, space is redistributed between the column that is specified for the GridSplitter and the next column that is to the left.
* `PreviousAndNext`&mdash;Resize the previous and next `Grid` columns or rows. For a horizontal GridSplitter, space is redistributed between the rows that are above and below the row that is specified for the GridSplitter. For a vertical GridSplitter, space is redistributed between the columns that are to the left and right of the column that is specified for the GridSplitter.

> Here is an example with `ResizeDirection` property set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to set the `ResizeDirection` correctly.
```

> Here is an example with `ResizeDirection` property set.

Reviewer: I suggest moving the example to the previous section&mdash;`## Resize Direction`. It should be in the section that it supports.
